== CMI Plugin

CMI is a Redmine plugin to have a summarized view of the projects.
It calculates and shows with graphics different metrics as actual effort,
cost, progress or deviation from the goals of the projects.

NOTE: CMI stands for 'Cuadro de Mando Integral' with is Spanish name for a
Central Panel of Management.

== Features

* CMI lets you see the current picture of each project and the global one.
* It makes calculations for you about progress, deviation from the initial
  goals and so.
* CMI is used by real companies like Emergya for doing the quality proyect's
  management for CMMI certificate.

== Getting the plugin

A copy of the plugin can be found in the {downloads}[http://forja.cenatic.es/]
 at Cenatic Forge and also on {Gitorious}[http://gitorious.org/cmi/cm/master].

== Install

Important note: read install notes before installing.

1. Make sure you have installed the Redmine version 1.0.0 or higher.
2. Follow the Redmine plugin installation steps at:
   http://www.redmine.org/wiki/redmine/Plugins
3. Install the plugin running the commands below from your Redmine directory
   (if you are going to run Redmine in, e.g. the production environment, you
   need to append RAILS_ENV=production to each line):
 rake db:migrate:plugin NAME=redmine_cmi
 rake cmi:create_data
 rake cmi:load_role_costs_history
 rake cmi:load_user_role_history
 rake cmi:recalculate_costs
4. Restart your Redmine web servers (e.g. mongrel, thin, mod_rails)
5. Login to your Redmine install as an Administrator
6. Enable the permissions for your Roles
7. The link to the plugin should appear on that project's navigation as 'CMI'

== Install notes

The plugin needs a bunch of custom fields and values to work. These fields and
values are created by the rake task cmi:create_data, based on the configuration
in config/defaults.yml. The configuration shiped with the plugin comes with
fields and values named in spanish. You can edit the file and translate the
field names and values to your language before invoking the task, but the file
is undocummented. There are plans to completely change the plugin configuration
system.

Also, once all this fields and values are created there is no automated way to
remove them.

It is, thus, advisable to do a database backup before trying the plugin.

== Uninstall

As stated above, you'll have to manually remove the created custom fields and
values.

The plugin also makes some database schema changes wich you should revert. Stop
the server and in redmine's directory run (if you are running Redmine in,
e.g. the production environment, you need to append RAILS_ENV=production):

 rake db:migrate:plugin NAME=redmine_cmi VERSION=0

After this you can remove the plugin's directory (vendor/plugins/redmine_cmi)
and restart the server.

== Usage

TODO.

== License

This plugin is licensed under the GNU GPL v2.  See LICENSE.txt for details.

== Project help

If you need help you can contact the maintainer on the bug tracker at
http://forja.cenatic.es/
